Power Xpert Blue Icons
===========================
This repository contains icon files for Power Xpert Blue 2.0.

Each icon has its own folder which includes the clean SVG file and the source design file(s).

Each icon folder will be nested into a "family" folder. Family folders follow a pattern similar to MD, e.g., **Status** and **Devices**.


## Design Approval
Designers can freely create icons for their project in their own feature branch, but in order to incorporate into the design system a pull request must be created and approved. See Git Steps for Designers below for more information.
 
Two reviews will be required to approve the pull request and merge into the system. A design review by a Senior designer to ensure the icon follows Material and PXBlue standards and a code review to ensure the SVG is formated properly. Reviewers must also agree that the name of the icon makes sense, avoids collisions, and that the icon fits into the proposed family folder.

## Design Creation
[Follow Material Design icon design guidelines & principles](https://material.io/guidelines/style/icons.html#icons-system-icons). Icons will be compared against these guideslines for approval.

Templates are also provided to assist in the creation of icons.

#### Template Files
* Illustrator - *IconTemplate.ait*
* Sketch - *to do*
* Printable - *MDILetter.pdf*, *MDITabloid.pdf* 

As noted above, use the provided AI and printable template files to design your icons. The source file should ideally contain both original paths, strokes, text, etc. (in the case that the icon must be modified to increase stroke width or font size, for example) as well as the expanded paths version.
 
The expanded version should be use to generate the SVG file.
 
#### SVG Export Guidelines
* Styling: Presentation Attributes
* Font: SVG or Expanded
* Images: Preserve
* Object IDs: Minimal
* Decimal: 2
* Minified
* Not Responsive (should include width and height and viewbox definitions).
* Be sure to include a 24x24px rectangle with no stroke and no fill to serve as the bounding box. 
* Strokes and type should be expanded to paths.
* Icon shape should have no fill defined.
* SVG should not include `<title>` or `<defs>` tags.
 
## Naming Conventions
Icon SVGs should follow the naming convention of just an icon name (e.g. `device`). If the name of an icon has more than one word, the name must have an underscore between each word (e.g. `battery_full`). Do not use prefixes or suffixes - these will be automatically applied as part of the build process.


## Developer Use
Developers can make use of the iconfont generated by the build process, use SVGs directly from the repository, or use a tool such as [SVGSUS](http://www.svgs.us/) to generate iOS/OSX CAShapeLayers, BezierPaths, Android Vector Drawables, Jade Templates, SVG Symbols, SVG Backgrounds or Cleaned SVGs.


## Build Processes
To build the icons-svg repository and the icon font, you can run ```yarn build``` in the root of the project.
 
Future work can be done to automate the build process when new icons are added, create a web page similar to https://material.io/icons/, generate png versions of icons, generate device sized versions of icons and more.


## Git Steps for Designers

 - Create a new Branch for your changes. The name of the branch should reflect the feature or icon you've created.
    - Be sure to start from the Working copy parent commit if you've already begun work.
       - In SourceTree, click the Branch button in the tool bar and follow the prompts.
       - In the command line use `git branch my-branch-name` where `my-branch-name` is the name of your new branch.
 - Commit your changes. Be sure that your source files and exported files are tracked. You must include a descriptive commit message. It should include any relevant information about that specific commit. 
 	- In SourceTree click the commit button and ensure you've added any unstaged changes/files. Enter a message and press the Commit button.
 	- In the command line, use `git status` to first check for changes and any untracked files. If there are untracked files, use `git add folder-name/file-name.name` where `folder-name/file-name.name` is the relative file location/name, to track the files or folders in git.
 	- If all files are tracked, in the command line, use `git commit -a -m "My commit message"` to commit all changes and enter a commit message. `-a` will only add all currently tracked files to the commit, so be sure to check if there are any untracked files first.
 - To push your changes, first ensure you're on your feature branch _*and not*_ `master` and then push to `origin/my-branch-name`
 	- In SourceTree press the Push button in the toolbar and follow the prompts.
 	- In the command line, use `git push origin\my-branch-name`. The `-u` flag can be used to set upstream for that branch.
 - Create a Pull Request to begun the process of merging your branch into master.
 	- Open [the repo in  Bitbucket](http://esgit.tcc.etn.com:7990/projects/BLUE/repos/icons/browse) and click the "Create pull request" button in the left side toolbar.
 	- Select the source branch, e.g. `my-branch-name` and ensure the destination is `master`. 
 	- In the Description box, enter any relevant information about the pull request/feature/icon. For instance, if your icon "breaks" Material Design guidelines for good reason, please explain why. 
 	- Add Reviewers to the pull request. Include `Atha, Eric` and `Boyle, Joseph P`. This may change as the design and PXBlue Team grows.
- The reviewers will either approve, decline or mark as needs work. 
	- If approved, the reviewers will merge into `master`
	- If declined, the reviewers will comment why
	- If marked as needs work, the reviewers will comment why and will give the designer time to revise and update the pull request.


